# Rule 11.1.2

## Summary

This test consists in checking the presence and the unicity of the `"id"` attribute of each form field associated with a `<label>` tag. We assume here that a form field is associated with a "<label>" tag when its `"id"` attribute corresponds to the `"for"` attribute of any `<label>` tag.

## Business description

### Criterion

[11.1](http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/criteres.html#crit-11-1)

###Test

[11.1.2](http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/criteres.html#test-11-1-2)

### Description

Chaque <a href="http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/glossaire.html#champ-de-saisie-de-formulaire">champ de formulaire</a>, associ&eacute; &agrave; une <a href="http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/glossaire.html#tiquette-de-champs-de-formulaire">&eacute;tiquette</a> (balise `label`), v&eacute;rifie-t-il ces conditions ? 
 
 *  Le champ de formulaire poss&egrave;de un attribut `id` 
 *  La valeur de l'attribut `id` est unique 
 *  La balise `label` poss&egrave;de un attribut `for` 
 *  La valeur de l'attribut `for` est &eacute;gale &agrave; la valeur de l'attribut `id` du champ de formulaire associ&eacute; 

### Level

**A**

## Technical description

### Scope

**Page**

### Decision level

**Decidable**

## Algorithm

### Selection

#### Set1 (input fields)

All the `<input>` tags  with a `"type"` attribute equals to:
-  "text"
-   or "password"
-   or "checkbox"
-   or "radio"
-   or "file"
-   or "search"
-   or "tel"
-   or "email"
-   or "number"
-   or "url"
-   or "date"
-   or "range"
-   or "color"
-   or "time"

AND all the `<textarea>`, `<select>`, `<datalist>`, `<keygen>` tags AND for all of them no `"aria-label"`, `"aria-labelledby"` or `"title"` attribute.

#### Set2 

All the `<label>` tags

#### Set3 

All the element of **Set1** with no `<label>` tag as parent.

#### Set4 

All the element of **Set2** with an `<input>` child with an `"id"` attribute.

### Process

#### Tests

##### Test1

For each element of **Set1**, test if the node contains a not empty `"id"` attribute.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test1**, raise a MessageA.

##### Test2

For each element of **Set1** with an `"id"` attribute, test that this id is unique on the page.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test2**, raise a MessageB.

##### Test3

For each element of **Set2**, test if this element has a not empty `"for"` attribute.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test3**, raise a MessageC.

##### Test4

For each element in **Set3**, test if the `"id"` attribute is equals to the `"for"` attribute of a `<label>` in the same <form>.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test4**, raise a MessageD.

##### Test5

For each element in **Set4**, test if the `"for"` attribute is equals to the "`id`" attribute of the `<input>` in the same <form>.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test5**, raison a MessageE.

#### Messages

##### MessageA : Id attribute missing

- code :IdMissing
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageB : Id Not Unique

- code :IdNotUnique
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageC : For attribute Missing

- code :ForMissing
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageD : Input Not linked To Label. 

- code :InvalidInput
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageE : Label Not linked To Input Child. 

- code :InvalidLabel
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

#### Rules remark

 * IdMissing (fr): L&#39;attribut <code>id</code> est manquant sur les &eacute;l&eacute;ments suivants :
 * IdMissing (en): The <code>id</code> attribute is missing on the following elements :

 * IdNotUnique (fr): La valeur de l&#39;attribut <code>id</code> {0} a &eacute;t&eacute; trouv&eacute; sur les &eacute;l&eacute;ments suivants :
 * IdNotUnique (en): The value {0} of the <code>id</code> attribute has been found on the following elements :

 * ForMissing (fr): L&#39;attribut <code>for</code> est manquant sur les &eacute;l&eacute;ments suivants :
 * ForMissing (en): The <code>for</code> attribute is missing on the following elements :

 * InvalidInput (fr): Les champs de formulaire {0} suivants ne sont pas associ&eacute;s \u00e0 une &eacute;tiquette :
 * InvalidInput (en): The following {0} form fields are badly associated with a <code>label</code> tag :

 * InvalidLabel (fr): Les champs de formulaire suivants {0} n&#39;ont ni attribut <code>title</code>, ni &eacute;tiquette :
 * InvalidLabel (en): The following {0} form fields don&#39;t contain neither a <code>title</code> attribute nor a <code>label</code> tag :

### Accede Web guidelines

 * Rgaa32016-11-1-1-Accedeweb-HTML-7-1

### Analysis

#### Not Applicable

There is no input form tag on the page (**Set1** is empty).

#### Failed

At least one input element on the page is not well linked with a label. (**Test1** OR **Test2** OR **Test3** OR **Test4** OR **Test5** return false for at least one element).

#### Passed

All input on the page are well associated with a label. (**Test1** AND **Test2** AND **Test3** AND **Test4** AND **Test5** return true for all the elements).
