# Rule 11.9.2

## Summary

This test consists in detecting all the buttons in `<form>` tags with an `aria-labelledby` attribute on the page.

The control that checks that each aria-labelledby button is correctly implemented has to be done manually.

## Business description

### Criterion

[11.9](http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/criteres.html#crit-11-9)

###Test

[11.9.2](http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/criteres.html#test-11-9-2)

### Description

Dans chaque formulaire, l'intitul&eacute; de chaque <a href="http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/glossaire.html#bouton-formulaire">bouton</a> impl&eacute;ment&eacute; via une propri&eacute;t&eacute; ARIA `aria-labelledby` v&eacute;rifie-t-il ces conditions ? 
 
 * Le passage de texte servant d'intitul&eacute; poss&egrave;de un attribut `Id` ;
 * La valeur de l'attribut `id` est unique ;
 * La valeur de la propri&eacute;t&eacute; ARIA `aria-labelledby` est &eacute;gale &agrave; la valeur de l'attribut `id` du passage de texte ;
 * Le passage de texte est pertinent.


### Level

**A**

## Technical description

### Scope

**Page**

### Decision level

**Decidable**

## Algorithm

### Selection

#### Set1

All the possible implementation of buttons in a `<form>` tag (form input[type=submit][aria-labelledby] , form input[type=reset][aria-labelledby] , form input[type=button][aria-labelledby] , form input[type=image][aria-labelledby] , form button[aria-labelledby] )

### Process

#### Tests

##### Test1

##### Test1

For each element of **Set1**, test if the `"aria-labelledby"` attribute is not empty.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test1**, raise a MessageA.

##### Test2

For each element of **Set1**, test if the value of the `"aria-labelledby"` attribute corresponds to an existing `"id"` on the page.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test2**, raise a MessageB.

##### Test3

For each element of **Set1**, test if each value of the `"aria-labelledby"` attribute list values corresponds to a unique `"id"` on the page.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test2**, raise a MessageC.

For each occurence of true-result of **Test1**, **Test2** and **Test3**, raise a MessageD.

#### Messages

##### MessageA : Button with empty Aria labelledby attribute

- code : **ButtonWithEmptyAriaLabelledby**
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name, snippet
- present in source : yes

##### MessageB : button element without label

- code : **ButtonElementWithoutLabel**
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name, snippet
- present in source : yes

##### MessageC : Button element Associated with not unique id

- code : **ButtonElementWithNotUniqueId**
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name, snippet
- present in source : yes

##### MessageD : Check manually if the text associated with the aria-labelledby attribute is relevant

- code : **CheckManuallyTextAssociatedWithAriaLabelledbyAttributeRelevant**
- status: Pre-Qualified (NMI-Passed)
- parameter : tag name, snippet
- present in source : yes

### Analysis

#### Not Applicable

The page has no button with a `"aria-labelledby"` attribute (**Set1** is empty)

#### Failed

At least one element with an `"aria-labelledby"` attribute empty (At least one element of the **Test1** return false-result)

At least one element not associated with an element in the page (At least one element of the **Test2** return false-result)

At least one element associated with not unique id in the page (At least one element of the **Test3** return false-result)

#### Pre-Qualified

All the button with an `"aria-labelledby"` attribute are associated with their label correctly (**Test1** AND **Test2** AND **Test3** return true for all elements)

## Notes

We detect the elements of the scope of the test to determine whether the
test is applicable.
