# Rule 11.10.1

## Summary

This test consists in detecting all the visible and editable inputs in `<form>` tags on the page.

The control that checks that each input is required has to be done manually.

## Business description

### Criterion

[11.10](http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/criteres.html#crit-11-10)

###Test

[11.10.1](http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/criteres.html#test-11-10-1)

### Description

Pour chaque formulaire, les indications de champs obligatoires v&eacute;rifient-ils une de ces conditions ? 
 
 * L'indication de champ obligatoire est donn&eacute;e par un passage de texte avant le <a href="http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa/glossaire.html#champ-de-saisie-de-formulaire">champ de formulaire</a> ;
 * L'indication de champ obligatoire est donn&eacute;e via un attribut `required` ;
 * L'indication de champ obligatoire est donn&eacute;e via la propri&eacute;t&eacute; ARIA `aria-required` ;
 * L'indication de champ obligatoire est donn&eacute;e dans l'&eacute;tiquette (balise attribut `label`, attribut `title`, propri&eacute;t&eacute; `aria-label`, passage de texte li&eacute; via la propri&eacute;t&eacute; `aria-labelledby`) du champ de formulaire ;
 * L'indication de champ obligatoire est donn&eacute;e par un passage de texte li&eacute; par la propri&eacute;t&eacute; ARIA `aria-describedby`.


### Level

**A**

## Technical description

### Scope

**Page**

### Decision level

**Semi-decidable**

## Algorithm

### Selection

#### Set1

All the editable fields in a `<form>` tag (form input other than input[type="submit"] and input[type="reset"] and textarea).

### Process

#### Tests

##### Test1

For each element of **Set1**, test if it is a textarea, or if it is an input, test if the value of the `"type"` attribute is different from "submit" and "reset".

For each occurence of true-result of **Test1**, raise a MessageA.

##### MessageA: Manual check on element

-   code : ManualCheckOnElement
-   status: Pre-Qualified (NMI-Neutral)
-   parameter : snippet
-   present in source : yes

### Analysis

#### Not Applicable

The page has no textarea or input (**Set1** is empty).

#### Pre-qualified

The page has one or more input, other than input[type="submit"] and input[type="reset"], and/or one or more textarea.

## Notes

We detect the elements of the scope of the test to determine whether the
test is applicable.
